>> Speaker 1: Here we go folk,
it's known as partial application,
this is our last code we see today.
We're gonna create a function multiply
takes an (a, b), returns a by b.
We're hoping to convert it into
a function multiplyBy2, so
what we're gonna do is take into
this prefillFunction function,
the multiply function that takes in two
inputs, and the thing we wanna prefill.
MultiplyBy2 is just multiply prefill
where one argument is 2, right?
It's just multiply with
the 2 already prefilled.
We're gonna take those two, throw them
into prefillFunction, create our brand new
function inner, which is actually
what multipleBy2 is really gonna be.
MultiplyBy2, it's all nice and nice pretty
name but really, it's just gonna be inner.
And inner is gonna have a backpack
full of our multiply function,
there it is in fn and the prefilledValue.
And I have a feeling when we run inner
by its new global name multiplyBy2 it's
gonna take in 5 and combine that with
the prefilledValue from the backpack and
run multiplyBy2 on it,
and out it's gonna come.
We've gone and converted our and
multiply by function multiply,
see I say mulitplyBy2 many times.
Multiply functions from arity
of 2 to arity of 1, and
it's gonna be a vital
technique in practice.
We saw that if we want our dream, and
let's not lose sight of it people,
that we want one thing and one thing only
to be able to list off our lines of code,
not as obscure hard to understand
descriptive this computer is what
you need to do, or undescriptive
this computer what you need to do,
and that, that line can affect
anything else anywhere else on my app.
If I wanna have my dream where I can have
each single line be nicely labeled and
know that it's only
consequence is in that line and
then that's passed to the next line.
And then the only consequence
with that line is in that line,
passed to the next line.
Then folk my goodness I'm willing
to suffer a little bit to adjust
my functions that have two inputs.
When if I'm going to be listing off
functions one by one each of them needs to
take one input, return one output.
Then that be the input of the next
function, and it's only gonna take one
input, and that's gonna return an output,
I can just list off my lines of code.
I'm willing to suffer the process
of adjusting my functions
from taking two inputs to one.
And we're about to see for
our very last portion of
code the process by which
we can appear to edit our
functions with arity of 2,
inputs of two elements,
into a function that only expects
an input of 1 with no rewriting.
Now, to be clear, this is a simplified
example declaring multipleBy2
doesn't seem to be that hard, but for
many functions it's gonna be more complex.
And also even here, this is a very
nice way of declaring multiplyBy2.
I'm explicitly determine I'm gonna use
this previous code you recognize and
then prefill its value.
All right, here we go people.
Line one, the last section,
here we go Seth.
Seth, what are we doing in line one?
>> Seth: We'll be declaring
a function named multiply.
>> Speaker 1: There it
is into memory we go,
and we declare a function named multiply.
Uh-oh, what's it's a arity Seth?
>> Seth: 2.
>> Speaker 1: It's an arity of 2.
Two inputs a and
b return out a multiplied by b.
There it is, thank you Seth.
>> Speaker 1: Virginia multiply's been
saved, what's our next line Virginia?
Notice by the way, for whatever reason
I've declared this in the old style,
we'll live with it.
What's our next lines gonna do, Virginia?.
>> Virginia: We're declaring
a function called prefillFunction.
>> Speaker 1: PrefillFunction,
there it is.
I actually did leave that purposely.
I knew it said the old style but I wanted
you to remember nothing has changed.
Sam, last or line here, left-hand side,
we're declaring just what?
>> Sam: MultiplyBy2.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
just a label, multiplyBy2.
Okay, we already know, by the way,
though it's gonna be the output
of calling what, Sam?
>> Sam: PrefillFunction.
>> Speaker 1: Absolutely,
which is gonna return out inner that don't
look anything like multiplyBy2 to me.
But that's because to create multiplyBy2
from multiply we're gonna have to do some
really smart wrangling.
Mainly putting the multiply function and
it's prefilledValue of the number 2 in
the backpack of the inner function and
get some memory,
such that when we run multipleBy2, really
inner, we're gonna behind the scenes be
running fn whatever that multiply
which will be in the backpack.
All right, let's do it.
Let's do it.
So we're gonna go and
execute what Jasmine?
What function are we gonna go and execute
in order to get a result into multiplyBy2?
>> Jasmine: PrefillFunction.
>> Speaker 1: PrefillFunction,
she's spot on.
With the input of multiply,
there it is, and the number 2.
And its results is gonna me
stored into what Jasmine?
>> Jasmine: It's gonna be
stored into multiplyBy2.
>> Speaker 1: MultiplyBy2, she's spot on.
We create a brand new?
>> Speaker 6: Execution context.
>> Speaker 1: Well done folk.
And there it is.
And it's really honestly just the kind
of set up this execution context to get
a function we can return out that has a
backpack with our two important things in
it that we can then use.
So, with that in mind, what is
the first thing into the local memory
that will end up in our backpack,
Virginia?
>> Virginia: Function?
>> Speaker 1: Well, yeah, yeah-
>> Virginia: Multiply.
>> Speaker 1: Multiply,
given what parameter name?
>> Speaker 1: What's the parameter
name multiply's given?
>> Virginia: Fn.
>> Speaker 1: Fn, well done.
No, no your spot on Virginia.
PrefilledValue then gets
filled in with what, Virginia?
>> Virginia: 2.
>> Speaker 1: PrefilledValue
is filled in with 2.
I like to look of this people.
It has all the stuff I need.
There's multiply with its input of a and
b and
its output of a multiplied
by b slightly condense.
And then the final thing,
Andrew, same time as last time,
what are we saving here?
This is what we're actually gonna end
up using, this is your path will be.
Go ahead Andrew.
>> Andrew: We're saving
the function inner.
>> Speaker 1: Inner.
Andrew help me out this time,
we're not just saving a function inner.
>> Andrew: We're saving the local-
>> Speaker 1: No, we're saving a link too?
>> Andrew: Yeah the link
to the local memory.
>> Speaker 1: Exactly a link to
the surrounding local memory,
well done to Andrew.
We get a link to,
>> Speaker 1: You get a link
to,
>> Speaker 1: All
the surrounding local memory, there it is.
And then, David,
we're not gonna run inner, of course not,
we wanna use it to pretend to
masquerade as multiplyBy2.
So what are we gonna do with inner?
>> David: We're returning it.
>> Speaker 1: We're returning it,
well done.
We return it out into
what global label David?
>> David: MultiplyBy2.
>> Speaker 1: Into multiplyBy2,
there it is.
It was born as inner not anymore now we're
masquerading it as multiplyBy2,
what a con.
I didn't know multiplyBy2 but
in his backpack David is
some really useful stuff.
What is in that backpack that
multiplyBy2 is gonna need?
>> David: The function multiply.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah under what label?
>> David: Fn.
>> Speaker 1: Fn.
So multiply which takes in a and b and
returns out a by b, and what else?
>> David: PrefilledValue.
>> Speaker 1: PrefilledValue.
Which is what?
>> David: 2.
>> Speaker 1: 2.
This [SOUND] combo here of function
code and backpack is everything we need.
We've got the functionality when
we run multiplyBy2, really inner.
I have a feeling it's gonna run fn on or
whatever we pass into inner and
prefillValue, and then it's gonna
be whatever we pass in by 2.
That's it and we're gonna return that out.
We're not really editing our function
we're creating a brand new function that's
got all the important
stuff in its backpack.
And so this execution context
everybody is what off the stack?
>> Speaker 6: On.
Removed.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, removed,
popped off the stack.
Let's actually put our cool stack up so
we can keep track of it.
>> Speaker 1: We're in global
again now and what do we go and
declare next Babanesh?
>> Babanesh: The label [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 1: The label?
>> Babanesh: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Label, which label?
>> Babanesh: The result label.
>> Speaker 1: Result label,
there it is excellent from Babanesh.
And we run, we run what looks
like a really simple line.
Low key behind the scenes
it definitely isn't.
Let's see multiplyBy2 input of 5.
We create a new,
we're almost there everybody, a brand new?
>> Speaker 6: Execution [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 1: Execution context,
multiplyBy2 is called with 5.
Does multiplyBy2 just take in a number and
multiply by 2?
Uh-uh, uh-h [LAUGH].
No because we don't want have to create
a brand new function multiplyBy2,
we wanna be able to edit, the arity
of our existing presave functions.
Now it may seem like there's a bit of
a lot of work to do, but in the end,
we don't build prefill function, is
there for us in any functional language.
Not in Java, so we have to be pre
build this in JavaScript, but
from now on that allows us to
edit existing functions inputs,
which we're gonna have to
do quite a bit in practice.
Okay, mainly by the way, because things
like if you use certain APIs that expect
multiple inputs,
we need to be able to adjust their inputs,
not by actually editing the function,
but by, cuz that's already gone, but
instead by wrapping them up in the
backpack of a new function that then pools
that function with some of
the inputs pre-inserted.
Okay, new execution context.
And actually it's not the most
sophisticated ever but
it's not a small one either.
I'm thinking it's just multiplyBy2 but
of course it's not, here we go.
>> Speaker 1: There it is and
it's an interesting one.
What's the first thing,
Michael, inside multiplyBy2?
Well firstly everybody multiplyBy2
was born as what function name?
Everyone together.
>> Speaker 6: Inner.
>> Speaker 1: Well done.
So Michael, when I run multiplyBy2
I'm really running inner,
I'm not going back up, I literally
return this code out, there it is.
And what is the parameter?
>> Michael: The live input.
>> Speaker 1: Live input, he's spot on.
I called it that because when
multiplyBy2 is run that's the one
we're actually gonna
provide at that moment.
So the live rather than the one that's
prefilled in the backpack for multiplyBy2.
Okay, there it is.
And next line Babanesh
inside of multiplyBy2,
inner,-
>> Babanesh: Output.
>> Speaker 1: Output.
Yeah, declare output.
And now its output will be the result
of pooling fn with live input.
These are our, you're gonna fill these in,
aren't we in a second, prefilledValue.
Which is really saying,
fn which is really, everybody together,
it's not in local memory of multipliedBy2
it's in the backpack and it is what?
>> Speaker 6: Multiply.
>> Speaker 1: Multiply, well done folk.
Multiply, and our live input,
that's live right now and
that is what everybody?
>> Speaker 6: 5.
>> Speaker 1: 5.
And our prefilledValue, we get that from
the backpack as well and it is everyone?
>> Speaker 6: 2.
>> Speaker 1: 2!
We look like we're running
multiplyBy2 input of 5, nah, nah,
nah we're running multiply with
the input of 5 dynamically there and
with the prefilledValue
from the backpack of 2.
It's going to return out everybody?
>> Speaker 6: 10.
>> Speaker 1: 10, well done.
And we store that into output.
And then what do we do
with that output folk?
>> Speaker 6: Return it-
>> Speaker 1: We return it out
into results, and no one's any the wiser,
multiplyBy2 with input
of 5 returned out 10.
We're able to use that function
now as an arity of 1 function
anywhere in our listing of
individual lines of code.